NEW OPERATOR MANUAL



Pallet Jack Inspection 
Prior to using any pallet jack (fork truck) – either manual or electric – you must inspect 
the equipment to ensure there was no damage the prior shift, and to ensure you can 
safely operate the equipment. Your trainer will be able to point out the various features 
of the manual and electric pallet jacks at your plant. This will vary by plant so cannot be 
directly standardized in this guide. 
However, below is an example from the Denver plant. This is an example of the items 
that should be reviewed both Visually and Operationally (Mechanically), before an 
operator begins to use the equipment. 
Complete your plant’s form prior to using the pallet jack, to ensure you are able to work 
safely with the equipment. 
NOTE: Some plants include their checklist in RealSPC and others use a physical 
checklist. Review this with the department Lead / Trainer / Supervisor to determine the 
method that should be used. 


Ladder Inspection 
Prior to using any ladder, you must complete a thorough safety inspection. You should 
be looking for any kind of damage using your plant’s Ladder Inspection Form. 
Below is an example form that was created by the Fairfield plant. Your plant’s form can 
help guide the user through the areas that should be reviewed BEFORE using any 
ladder. 


Ergonomics 
It is important to pay attention to your body’s position before you participate in any 
activities. Managing lifting and repetitive motion activities are big opportunities to 
prepare yourself for your work day, and ensure you don’t put yourself at risk for some of 
the most common types of injuries in a manufacturing environment. 

Hand and Wrist Injury Prevention 
Hand and wrist injuries account for some of the most common injuries in a 
manufacturing setting. Keep the following suggestions in mind to prevent both sudden 
(acute) and long term / repetitive motion injuries. 

1) Keep your hands out of equipment. Many times individuals “React” and quickly 
place their hands in a place that is dangerous. Before interacting with ANY 
equipment, understand the Lockout / Tagout (LOTO) procedures for your 
equipment, and understand HOW your equipment works. 
a. If you don’t know how it works, STOP and ask for help! 
b. Never bypass the safety procedures that have been identified to protect 
you – do not bypass guards, do not work on energized equipment

2) Prevent Repetitive Motion Injuries by knowing your body position and 
understanding how it can affect your body long-term. If you notice any pain, 
report it IMMEDIATELY



General Injury Prevention - Stretches 
Stretching is not mandatory, but is a good idea to complete before starting your day. 
Ensuring your muscles warmed up / stretched, and occasionally stretching while 
completing repetitive tasks, can help prevent injuries that occur over time. 



Buckhorn / Ropak / Gaylord Assembly 
The sturdy containers that are designed to hold thousands of preforms have different 
names: 
- Buckhorn = Standard Sized, Hard Plastic – May be Blue, Black or a 
Combination – used for production to ship to Amcor Stretch Blow Molding 
Departments or External Customers. Not intended to store scrap or non￾conforming preforms. 
Some Plants may call this a “Bin” or “Tote” 
- Ropak = Oversized, Hard Plastic – Typically black – Used for Scrap bins – not 
intended to ship to customers or store finished goods 
- Gaylord = Corrugate / Cardboard version of a Buckhorn. May contain saleable 
goods such as preforms or bottles, but also may contain L-Scrap, A-Scrap, 
Purge, or other non-saleable material



Ladder Inspection 
Prior to using any ladder, you must complete a thorough safety inspection. You should 
be looking for any kind of damage using your plant’s Ladder Inspection Form. 
Below is an example form that was created by the Fairfield plant. Your plant’s form can 
help guide the user through the areas that should be reviewed BEFORE using any 
ladder. 



Pallet Jack Operation – Manual 
Before learning how to operate an Electric pallet jack, you should learn the basic 
principles of how to operate a manual pallet jack. 
The manual pallet jack is a common piece of equipment in all plants. They have no 
power requirements or electronic controls. An operator will want to inspect their manual 
pallet jack to ensure there is no damage to the wheels, forks or handles, prior to 
selecting the equipment for use. 
Ensure you understand how to operate the pallet jack ergonomically, and do not put 
yourself at risk for injury due to operation.